Q. No.(1) What is software ?
Answer : Software is a set of instructions, data or programs used to operate computers and execute specific task by giving proper instructions i.e.
what to do and how to do it. 



Q. No. (2) What is software engineering ?
Answer :

(a)Software engineering is defined as a process of analyzing user requirements and then
designing, building,and testing software application which will satisfy those requirements.

(b)According to The " Institution Of Electrical And Electronics Engineers" Software engineering
is as the application of a systematic, disciplined, which is a computable approach for the development, operation, and maintenance of software.



Q. No. (3) Explain types of software.
Answer : There are 3 main types of software

(a)System software or operating system
(b)Application software
(c)Programming software

(A) System software or operating system : 
System software is a software that directly operates the computer hardware and provides the basic functionality to the users as well as to the 
other software to operate smoothly. System software basically controls a computer’s internal functioning and also controls hardware devices 
such as monitors, printers, and storage devices, etc. System software helps them to communicate with each other because hardware understands machine 
language(i.e. 1 or 0) whereas user applications are work in human-readable languages like English, Hindi, German, etc. so system software converts 
the human-readable language into machine language and vice versa.

Some features of system software are
System software is written in a low-level language and closer to the computer system. it is difficult to design and understand. it is less interactive for 
the users in comparison to application software.

There are 3 sub type of system software
(1) Operating system : Linux, Apple OS, Microsoft Windows.
(2) Language processor : It converts programs written in high-level programming languages like Java, C, C++, Python into sets of instructions that are easily
readable by machines machine code.
(3) Device driver : A device driver is a program or software that controls a device and helps that device to perform its functions. Every device like a
printer,mouse.

(B) Application software : It is yhe general designation of computer programs for performing user tasks.

There are 3 typesa of Application software
(1)Mobile app : Application that run opn  mobile like instagram, facebook.
(2)Desktop app : That run alon in a desktop, laptop, computer. For example microsoft office which include word, exel.
(3)Web app : That run on aweb browser. For examaple google.com



(c) Programming software : Programming software is a program or set of programs which helps the software developers by assisting them in creating, debugging 
and maintaining other programs and applications. Programming software is also known as programming tool or software development tool.



Q. No. (3) What is SDLC ? Explain each phace of SDLC
Answer : SDLC or the Software Development Life Cycle is a process that produces software with the highest quality and lowest cost in the time possible.
SDLC provides a well-structured flow of phases that help an organization to quickly produce high-quality software which is well-tested and ready for 
production use.

The SDLC involves six phases.

(1)Requirement analysis
(2)Software Analysis :
(3)Design Architecture
(4)Software development/Implementation
(5)Testing
(6)Deployment and Maintenance: 

(1)Requirement analysis/Gathering : In requirment analysis Requirements gathering is the first most crucial phase of the software development life cycle. 
It decides how your software will look and perform at the end. To build a quality software, it is imperative to spend ample time in this phase. During this 
step, the project managers or business analyst meet with the customer and ask for the software specifications.  Therefore, it is recommended to ask 
open-ended questions to pull out the maximum details of the project. The more information you gathered, the more it will become easy to understand client 
expectations from the project.

(2)Software Analysis : Once the 1st phace done with the requirements gathering or analysis the second phase to explore the functional and non-functional 
requirements of the project.

(3)Design Architecture : Phase 3 identifies the design architecture of the project and all the functional and non-functional requirements of the project. 
It is the best phase to correct your mistakes in case you find any or else your time and cost will get doubled.

(4)Software development/Implementation : This phase is requires developers to implement what has been decided in the previous phases. It is the longest 
phase of SDLC because all the development takes place in this phase. In this developers build the code, test, integrate and manage.

(5)Testing : Testing is the crucial phase of the software development life cycle. It helps to find the bugs and errors of the software. The testing team test 
each project module and check either they are functioning properly. After passing through the various testing stages, the software is ready to go live.

(6)Deployment and Maintenance: In this stage, the software is released in the market. Sometimes, the project is released to the current clients only and based 
on their feedback changes are made.  After the project is released successfully in the market, maintenance is carried out for customers. The project team 
updates software to make sure it is relevant to the current market needs.



Q. No. (4)What is DFD? Create a DFD diagram on Flipkart
Answer : DFD is the abbreviation for Data Flow Diagram. The flow of data of a system or a process is represented by DFD. Data Flow diagrams are very popular 
because they help us to visualize the major steps and data involved in software-system processes.



Q. No. (5)What is flow chart? Create a flow chart to make addition of two numbers.
Answer : A flowchart is a type of diagram that represents a workflow or process. A flowchart can also be defined as a diagrammatic representation of 
an algorithm, a step-by-step approach to solving a task. The flowchart shows the steps as boxes of various kinds, and their order by connecting the boxes with arrows.



Q. No. (6)What is use case diagram ? Create a use-case on bill payment on paytm.
Answer : In the Unified Modeling Language (UML), a use case diagram can summarize the details of your system's users (also known as actors) and their 
interactions with the system. To build one, you'll use a set of specialized symbols and connectors. An effective use case diagram can help your team discuss 
and represent Scenarios in which your system or application interacts with people, organizations, or external systems Goals that your system or application 
helps those entities (known as actors) achieve the scope of your system.


















